## Review Blog #2

_Project_: Oral Narratives of Latin@s in Ohio

_Project Director_: Dr. Elena Foulos, Dr. Cassie Patterson, various student collaborators

_Project URL_: [https://cfs.osu.edu/archives/collections/ONLO](https://cfs.osu.edu/archives/collections/ONLO) 

### Summary 

Oral Narratives of Latin@s in Ohio is a digital humanities project conducted by The Ohio State University (OSU). The project directors and students who attend OSU have set out to interview the large latino community living in Ohio and get insight into their shared experiences and cultural traditions. It is an ongoing project that is continually being added to as more people are being interviewed. 

The goal of this project is to show how these Latinos in Ohio are invested in activism, education, policy making, faith, and cultural events that celebrate their heritage and make an impact on their community. Each story is unique to the life that the interviewee has lived, but intertwined are many similarities and shared experiences or beliefs because of their latino heritage. Those who work on the project or participate in the project want to start a conversation that facilitates a mutual understanding of other cultures and makes a lasting impact far beyond what they can imagine. 

### Organization

When first looking at this project it looks like an article from the OSU in a journalistic style. At first glance it is hard to tell that it is a digital humanities project. The home page has an overview of what the project is about and has a slideshow of images from different interviews. They also provide the whole introduction in English and Spanish, which is very helpful and necessary when trying to reach a broader audience. That way not only those who are a part of the project and the latino community can read and learn about the culture, but those outside of the culture who may not speak spanish can learn about the project as well. 

The bottom of the page has student contributors names and their project funding information. Initially I could not find the interview videos and there was no direction on where they were located. After browsing the page some more I realized there was a long list of names in a dropdown menu on the right hand side of the page. When I clicked on the name it brought me to a new page which had the video of the interviewee that the name was referring to. 

I think the best way to resolve this confusion would be to say, somewhere on the front page, “to view each video select a name on the right hand side dropdown menu.” This would ensure that viewers stayed on the page and realized that this project had a lot more to it than just the summary. Otherwise, the page looks incomplete as if they had not uploaded the videos to the site yet. 

### Videos

Each interview is posted using YouTube as it’s platform. It is a conversation style of interviewing where the interviewer asks questions about interviewee(s) life, like where they grew up, what traditions their family has, what they do for work, what being a latino in America means to them, etc. There is a mixture of interviews fully conducted in Spanish, some that use a mix of Spanish and English, and some that are conducted in English. 

The hardest part about using YouTube as the streaming platform is their translator. The videos are not embedded with a predetermined transcript so the computer has to generate any language translations for subtitles on the spot. This causes very strange mis-translations and makes it difficult to understand the stories that the people are sharing. While it is important to allow the interviewees to speak in their native language because that is part of their identity, the platform prohibits non-spanish speaking views from being able to absorb the rich stories that these people have to share. 

Personally, I was able to pick up on some of the phrases and words that were mistranslated because of my schooling in Spanish in high school and college. Even so, I needed the subtitles on to recognize the words in Spanish in the first place and YouTube didn’t even offer subtitles as an option on some of the videos. 

I believe a solution to this would be to provide a transcript at the bottom of the pages that the videos appear on that can be easily read and translated in order to reach more people like their mission says they hope to do. Each person that was interviewed has and currently lives through so much history and culture that is profound and exciting to learn about, so I loved hearing and understanding what I could, but I just wish I could have learned more if there were more opportunities to bridge the language barrier. 


### Conclusions

All in all, this project gives an insight into the Latino culture in Ohio, but also to many other Latinos from all over the country and world. The bonding characteristic that sharing cultures has is seen throughout generations and traditions that are shared by so many in drastically different parts of the world. No one story is identical, but each story has pieces of shared experiences that can bring people together regardless of their geographical location. 

